#summary summary
#labels 2010Sprint
[DeveloperSprintSummer2010 Sprint Home]
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />
= Introduction =
Nearly every Salesforce org needs to convert leads. Either they have a business process that includes Leads, or they're using Web to Lead to get Contacts into their database.

= Current State = 
Lead conversion doesn't work as might be expected in the one-to-one Account model.

 * set the Company = "Self" or a match of the lead's name and it converts to a new one-to-one contact
 * The Lead conversion interface is not shown when converting a one-to-one lead.
 * In the Individual Account model, it proceeds normally

= Problems with current State =

 * in the one-to-one model
   * an Opportunity cannot be created when converting a Lead
   * Leads can't be merged to existing Contacts

== Open Issues ==
  * http://code.google.com/p/npsp/issues/detail?id=15
  * http://code.google.com/p/npsp/issues/detail?id=41
  * http://code.google.com/p/npsp/issues/detail?id=90
  * http://code.google.com/p/npsp/issues/detail?id=161

= Potential Course of Action =

  * build a lead conversion UI to allow for merging and Opportunity creation

= Implementation Details = 

== Notes ==
  * There were no new pages or classes created. The existing leadConvertOverride.page and LeadConvertOverride.cls were modified.
  * The new process stops on the leadConvertOverride page if the lead is identified as a one-to-one lead.
  * Functionality added. Merge to existing Contact. Create opportunity upon conversion. Set owner of any newly created records. Notify new owner (Standard lead convert option, no custom email/workflow). Set converted status of lead if org has more than one option for converted status.
  * TEST_LeadConvertOverride class was updated with new unit tests with coverage around 93%.

== Impact on current install base ==
  * No new fields, class, pages were created so metadata impact should be minimal.
  * Users that are familiar with current one-to-one convert behavior may be caught off guard.

== Pros and Cons of Course of Action ==
  * PRO: Added features.
  * ACTION: Notify users of changed behavior/new features.